[Music]
now it came to pass when David was
dwelling in his house the David said to
Nathan the prophet see now I dwell in a
house of cedar but the Ark of the
Covenant of the Lord is under tent
curtains do all that is in your heart
for God is with you
[Music]
but it happened that night that the Word
of God came to Nathan
[Music]
go and tell my servant David thus says
the Lord you shall not build me a house
to dwell for I have not dwelt in a house
since the time that I brought up Israel
even to this day but have gone from tent
to tent and from one tabernacle to
another wherever I have moved about with
all Israel
have I ever spoken a word to any of the
judges of Israel whom I commanded to
Shepherd my people saying why have you
not built me a house of cedar now
therefore thus shall you say to my
servant David thus says the Lord of
Hosts I took you from the sheep phone
from following the Sheep to be ruler
over my people Israel and I have been
with you wherever you have gone and have
cut off all your enemies from before you
and have made you a name like the name
of the great men who are on the earth
moreover I will appoint a place for my
people Israel and will plant them
that they may dwell in a place of their
own and move no more nor shall the sons
of wickedness oppress them any more as
previously since the time that I
commanded judges to be over my people
Israel also I will subdue all your
enemies furthermore I tell you that the
Lord will build you ours and it shall be
when your days are fulfilled when you
must go to be with your fathers but I
will set up your seed after you who will
be of your sons and I will establish his
kingdom he shall build me a house and I
will establish his throne
forever I will be his father and he
shall be my son and I will not take my
mercy away from him as I took it from
him who was before you and I will
establish him in my house and in my
kingdom forever and his throne shall be
established forever according to all
these words and according to all this
vision
so Nathan spoke to David then King David
went in and sat before the Lord Who am I
Oh Lord God and what is my house that
you have brought me this far and yet
this was a small thing in your sight Oh
God and you have also spoken of your
servants house for a great while to come
and have regarded me according to the
rank of a man of high degree on Lord God
what more can David say to you
for the honor of your servant for you
know your servant Oh Lord for your
servant's sake and according to your own
heart you have done all this greatness
in making known all these great things
Oh Lord there is none like you nor is
there any God besides you according to
all that we have heard with our ears and
who is like your people Israel the one
nation on the earth whom God went to
redeem for himself as a people to make
for yourself a name by great and awesome
deeds by driving out nations from before
your people whom you redeemed from Egypt
for you have made your people Israel
your very own people forever and you
Lord have become their God and now O
Lord the word which you have spoken
concerning your servant and concerning
his house
let it be established forever and do as
you have said so let it be established
that your name may be magnified forever
saying the Lord of hosts the God of
Israel is Israel's God and let the house
of your servant David be established
before you for you oh my god have
revealed to your servant that you will
build him a house therefore your servant
has found it in his heart to pray before
you and now Lord you are God and have
promised this goodness to your servant
now you have been pleased to bless the
house of your servant that it may
continue before you forever for you have
blessed it all
and it shall be blessed forever